_projects/2022-09-09-essays.md, before:

---
title: 'Essays'
subtitle: 'Because Im a weirdo that likes writing academic shit for fun.'
date: 2021-04-19 01:00:00
featured_image: '/images/featured/ikenfell-press.png'
---
Automating this page is on my to-do list but for now here's a manually curated pile of my media analysis work.

---

## [Consent and Abuse in Boyfriend Dungeon](https://evhaste.com/blog/consent-and-abuse-in-boyfriend-dungeon)

![](/images/featured/boyfriend-dungeon.png)

In this article, we’ll discuss how Boyfriend Dungeon contrasts via gameplay both healthy and unhealthy consent models.

We’ll also break down the anatomy of abuse by isolating specific emotional manipulation techniques that are employed by its antagonist, and explore the unique potential of dating sims as learning tools, which empower survivors of abuse to safely re-engage in intimate relationships. [Read More?](https://evhaste.com/blog/consent-and-abuse-in-boyfriend-dungeon)

{:style="color:gray; font-size: 80%; text-align: center;"}
⭐This is probably my best work so far.

---

## [Paradise Killer: Facts vs. the Truth](https://evhaste.com/blog/paradise-killer)
![](/images/featured/paradise-killer-press.png)

Your honor, the prosecution seeks to prove here today that those in a position of authority are uniquely empowered to form and define their own truths. It will demonstrate that the law is neither purely logical, nor neutral, and that it can never be impartially enforced. Evaluation of right and wrong is inherently inseparable from our personal biases.

Let us call Paradise Killer to the witness stand; an open-world locked-room murder mystery which codifies via play the filters inevitably applied by those in power when passing judgement upon others. [Read More?](https://evhaste.com/blog/paradise-killer)

{:style="color:gray; font-size: 80%; text-align: center;"}
⭐ Close second!

---

## [Ikenfell as an Exploration of Trauma and Healing](https://evhaste.com/blog/ikenfell)
![](/images/featured/ikenfell-press.png)

For the freshmen, Ikenfell is a turn-based RPG developed by Vancouver-based Happy Ray Games. It follows the adventures of "ordinary" teen Maritte, as she breaks into a magical school in search of her missing sister. Originally Kickstarted in 2016, the promise of queer Hogwarts instantly captivated many muggles still heartbroken over their own missing acceptance letters.

I'd have been satisfied with that premise alone. But it also has a surprising amount to say about trust, isolation, and healing process for post-traumatic stress. [Read More?](https://evhaste.com/blog/ikenfell)

---

## [Queer Identities in Smile for Me](https://evhaste.com/blog/smile-for-me)
![](/images/featured/smile-for-me-press.png)

Today is Valentines Day, a national holiday celebrating yours truly. And you know what always makes me happy? Application of critical theory!

Using a queer lens, I can make a compelling case that Smile for Me's central antagonist, Dr. B Habit, is both gay and gender-nonconforming. The rest of y'all nerds on dates and stuff are really missing out, this is where the fun is at. [Read More?](https://evhaste.com/blog/smile-for-me)

Commit message:

Updating Journalism and Essay Projects

_projects/2022-09-09-essays.md, after:

---
title: 'Essays'
subtitle: 'Because Im a weirdo that likes writing academic shit for fun.'
date: 2021-04-19 01:00:00
featured_image: '/images/featured/ikenfell-press.png'
---
Automating this page is on my to-do list but for now here's a manually curated pile of my media analysis work.

---

## [A History of American Journalism](https://evhaste.com/blog/history-of-journalism)

![](/images/featured/a-history-of-Journalism.jpg)

I've made good on my threat to release a video essay.

This is part one of three; an educational series on the history, methodology, and ethics of journalism. Inside: a code of conduct, a jailbreak, and some light cannibalism. The script is included if you'd prefer to read it, instead!

 [Read More?](https://evhaste.com/blog/history-of-journalism)




## [Consent and Abuse in Boyfriend Dungeon](https://evhaste.com/blog/consent-and-abuse-in-boyfriend-dungeon)

![](/images/featured/boyfriend-dungeon.png)

In this article, we’ll discuss how Boyfriend Dungeon contrasts via gameplay both healthy and unhealthy consent models.

We’ll also break down the anatomy of abuse by isolating specific emotional manipulation techniques that are employed by its antagonist, and explore the unique potential of dating sims as learning tools, which empower survivors of abuse to safely re-engage in intimate relationships. [Read More?](https://evhaste.com/blog/consent-and-abuse-in-boyfriend-dungeon)

{:style="color:gray; font-size: 80%; text-align: center;"}
⭐This is probably my best work so far.

---

## [Paradise Killer: Facts vs. the Truth](https://evhaste.com/blog/paradise-killer)
![](/images/featured/paradise-killer-press.png)

Your honor, the prosecution seeks to prove here today that those in a position of authority are uniquely empowered to form and define their own truths. It will demonstrate that the law is neither purely logical, nor neutral, and that it can never be impartially enforced. Evaluation of right and wrong is inherently inseparable from our personal biases.

Let us call Paradise Killer to the witness stand; an open-world locked-room murder mystery which codifies via play the filters inevitably applied by those in power when passing judgement upon others. [Read More?](https://evhaste.com/blog/paradise-killer)

{:style="color:gray; font-size: 80%; text-align: center;"}
⭐ Close second!

---

## [Ikenfell as an Exploration of Trauma and Healing](https://evhaste.com/blog/ikenfell)
![](/images/featured/ikenfell-press.png)

For the freshmen, Ikenfell is a turn-based RPG developed by Vancouver-based Happy Ray Games. It follows the adventures of "ordinary" teen Maritte, as she breaks into a magical school in search of her missing sister. Originally Kickstarted in 2016, the promise of queer Hogwarts instantly captivated many muggles still heartbroken over their own missing acceptance letters.

I'd have been satisfied with that premise alone. But it also has a surprising amount to say about trust, isolation, and healing process for post-traumatic stress. [Read More?](https://evhaste.com/blog/ikenfell)

---

## [Queer Identities in Smile for Me](https://evhaste.com/blog/smile-for-me)
![](/images/featured/smile-for-me-press.png)

Today is Valentines Day, a national holiday celebrating yours truly. And you know what always makes me happy? Application of critical theory!

Using a queer lens, I can make a compelling case that Smile for Me's central antagonist, Dr. B Habit, is both gay and gender-nonconforming. The rest of y'all nerds on dates and stuff are really missing out, this is where the fun is at. [Read More?](https://evhaste.com/blog/smile-for-me)
